foreign
Tanenbaum and alloy co-founder and cro
Laura speakerman I'm Michael I am the
chief operating officer at Rex uh I've
been at the company for five years and
previous to brex I worked at a company
called Sofi uh where I was the chief
Revenue officer which is what you are
that's what I do so I'm Laura speakerman
I'm a co-founder and chief Revenue
officer at alloy alloy is an identity
decisioning platform that serves both
Banks and fintech companies to manage
all of their identity needs from kyc and
Amal to risk and fraud yep and uh brex
just to cover it we're a big sponsor
here so you probably know you can see my
socks
um we are a corporate credit card and
expense management platform so I'll try
to speak in the microphone
um but just want to say today that Laura
and I are both really excited to be here
uh we have been Mutual customers since
2017 uh which I think speaks very much
to the nature of the saster conference
and
um kind of what a lot of people are here
to be uh to be about and learn about
which is growing and scaling so we met
in 2017. I think I think we had coffee
and you paid for it on a breakfast
exactly I showed that the card worked
yeah and um so we have both we're both
Mutual customers we've scaled with each
other which I think is a really nice
um really nice story and definitely
speaks to the conference I'll let you
talk about your conference experiences
yeah I think we first came in 2015 or
2016 when it was still in New York
we were five people we probably didn't
even have a I don't think we even could
pay for a ticket at that point so it's
uh kind of really nice to come full
circle when we've grown up a little bit
not a lot but a little bit yeah and I
think so what I've found uh being at
brex and focusing obviously on growth
that's always the number one thing but
in the regulated space that we operate
we're a fintech and so we've got a
number of risks Laura and I are going to
talk about those today
um but I think over time risk really
evolves and these constraints that you
have they don't go away but they become
actually they change and they become
more more important over time but
they're also important at the outset and
so I think it's really important when
you think about risk to think about how
it evolves as you grow right so when
you're an early stage company back in
the stage that Laura and I were talking
about some of you might be that stage in
the audience you really have to you're
just trying to make a business and you
don't really have that much to protect
to be frank and so risk management at
the early stage company level is quite
different than it's going to be as you
get larger and so just to give some
examples from my time at Rex
really early on Rex we were early to the
corporate credit card space at that time
uh Marketa which a lot of people know is
a vendor that people use they didn't
offer credit and so brex kind of hacked
the system to pre-fund these Marketa
accounts like a debit card without
getting into too much of the details to
make it so we could offer credit even
though it didn't exist because as many
of you all know in the US at least
everybody wants a credit card debit card
at least from a company's perspective is
not as desirable and so we figured out a
way to do that that was a little bit
hacky and helped us launch and probably
took some risks that needed to be taken
in order for us to have a business I
think you know being frank with you
Laura just even working with alloy that
was a new vendor you know they weren't a
known Vendor by banks at that time I
think we were like eight people right I
mean they weren't naturally if you were
going to bring in a big chief compliance
officer from a company that's much
larger that person would probably say
like we're not going with this startup
with four people in Oakland and four
people in Brooklyn right so it was quite
you know even choosing you as a vendor
was different I think and probably a
risk that we were willing to take as an
earlier company that we wouldn't today
fast forward to today you all probably
are aware crypto accounts in particular
became really hot at the end of last
year and a lot of people were looking
for brex cash which is our bank account
like product to offer crypto savings
accounts with you know crypto yield and
a lot of pressure was put on me
internally to approve that and I didn't
do it because I said not I have nothing
against crypto I own crypto personally
but I thought for our customer base
because we have this risk management
brand to uphold it wasn't the right
thing we didn't understand exactly the
source of the yield and US recommending
it put us at a lot of risk for doing
that because you know brex customers
turn to us to be a trusted counterparty
and they want to make sure that our
products offer the Safety and Security
they expect from our brand and so that
was an example where you know early on
we had nothing to protect but later we
really did I think there's we we work so
closely with with early stage fintech
companies in particular dealer at the
beginning when they're thinking about
building their risk protocol appetite
tools systems Etc I think there's two
primary types of risk that they have to
be mindful of one is fraud and fraud
grows as you scale right so it's not
necessarily linear um I think we're
seeing that today as it's like going
completely out of control but
once you're getting fraud uh one that's
kind of a good thing right it means
you're like on the map right it means
maybe you're doing some marketing and
you're attracting some attention two you
also want a little bit of fraud because
you want to know what it looks like you
want to be able to control it you want
to learn from it you want to sort of
take note of which identities are doing
what what those profiles look like Etc
but the second kind of you know risk to
to be really thoughtful of in the early
days is just compliance risk to think
about anti-money laundering uh stuff
like that that's more binary that's like
you can get it you can be breaking a lot
when you have zero customers zero
dollars like nothing exciting going on
um which sucks it's a hard thing to deal
with and it's expensive problem I think
the tides have turned a little bit and
what's what's
encouraging about fintech in this moment
at least I think is having a really good
handle on compliance
so it doesn't mean like be be you know
the biggest bank worth of compliance but
something that's appropriate can be an
asset
um and it can get you the bank
Partnerships that you're looking for we
see this all the time when people come
in really prepared with great compliance
packages right they're going to zoom
through that process and launch faster
get to revenue faster yeah I mean I
think compliance it's one of those for
the most part it's kind of binary like
there's rules and you got to follow them
I think you don't want to comply
yourself out of business right so
obviously you can't you know if you just
focus on compliance all the time and I
remind our uh risk teams about this all
the time it's like if we take no risks
we have no business so there's nothing
to protect right so that's an important
lesson but at the same time I also have
this kind of concept of the schmuck test
which I made up and uh it basically
means you ask yourself do we look like a
schmuck if we do this and in compliance
you don't want to look like a schmuck so
I think think if you're going to ask if
you're gonna give money to somebody
that's a known someone known on a
sanctions list that's an obvious no and
you're gonna fail the schmuck test if
you do that so that that actually gets
to
um
another concept which is risk appetite
uh do you want to talk a little bit
about your I think well let me actually
just talk about risk appetite at brexit
and what it means and I think you can
talk a little bit about how you've hired
uh Executives into that appetite but
risk appetite's a really important point
because it's something that exists in
The Ether a lot of times and what I'm
here to tell you is that to help
yourself scale which is why you're all
here and grow you want to actually put
that appetite on paper and agree on it
and so your risk appetite it's it's kind
of unknown a lot of times and you'll
start to observe what your risk appetite
is based on the senior leaders in your
company and how they react when risks
are taken and things go wrong and the
value of actually clarifying and
codifying your risk appetite uh which is
something that coinbase did early and
that's where I uh got it from not that I
worked there but I heard from people
that worked there that they did this is
enormously beneficial because if you do
not agree upon what your risk appetite
is as a company at brexit went as far as
actually agreeing upon that with our
board which is an option not a
requirement but if you don't do that
your risk appetite becomes all about
whoever the executive or person or
product manager is in charge whatever
their appetite is that becomes the risk
appetite so did you have your executive
team like align on it document
I drove the process in the sense that I
had a sense for like okay this is the
level of actual fraud losses at which
point we are not comfortable this is the
level of credit losses this is the level
of reputation risk something we're going
to get to in a bit that we're
comfortable this is the level of
regulatory risk right it's not zero to
your point I mean taking zero risk is
not effective and so but establishing
what you're willing to take is effective
and writing it out and agreeing on it
makes so much of the conversation not
about who's writing and who's wrong but
what is it going to do to the
pre-approved and pre-agreed upon
appetite and I know you've hired a bunch
of Executives into this methodology
we've both worked with because we work
with a number of fintech companies
obviously and I think we see people like
you who are on the executive team where
you've had prior risk experience at Sofi
in your case you saw risk management you
saw the good the bad the ugly the hard
and we see executive teams where when
they've had prior experience are just
much better handling it they're they are
not binary they're not saying like I
don't
give a at all about compliance
they're also not saying you know I want
to take zero zero risk ever uh everyone
who's good is somewhere in between and
has kind of scars to prove it so that
the analogy we like is like you should
have if you're if you're a risk
professional at a startup you should
have been in a car accident and survived
right like know what it's like to get
beaten up a little bit
um and then for hiring internally at all
the way we think a lot about we've hired
former clients of ours so our head of
product came from uh Brad perily Wing
she knows what it's like to build a
really inherently risky product and can
like really empathize I think with all
of our customers around that inherent
tension they have between growing the
job we're all here to do that investors
demand out of us
and being safe and being compliant and
not totally getting wiped out and so I
think that empathy in the product sense
actually goes a long way the other
profile we really like is former
Founders who've had to deal with that so
any fintech founder who's just had to
manage that who's gotten who's had
compliance over their shoulders had to
get a partner-bank relationship it's
hard um and there's nothing to really
replace just experience there yeah no I
mean I think the the comment that you
make around having been in a car
accident I think it's a common that's a
common phrase in Risk Management
um not making light of car accidents
obviously but I think that the reason
that people use that phrase is that it's
very hard to have an appreciation for
this
um if you haven't been through it so I
think if you are a first-time founder
and you're learning about these things
for the first time it's very important
as Laura says to bring on someone who
has a different experience so if we like
if we take myself for example at brex as
Laura mentioned at Sofi I had sort of
seen the regulatory landscape evolve in
particular Obama Administration a lot of
focus on cfpb right the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau that was a
new thing so dealing with new Regulators
but also you know we took a lot of
Financial Risk
um in in the products that we built and
so I could take that perspective and
talk about what had worked previously
what hadn't worked and I think that that
is the kind of uh car accident like
experience that you want when you're
talking about hiring someone into a
specific risk appetite and so that
rather than have this tension though
between someone who has experience and
who doesn't that's why that's that
brings you back to the value of
pre-agreeing upon what is the appetite
that you're willing to take yeah know
the risks you're taking yep and so I
think with that you know one thing that
we've also found in our jobs and roles
is that risk appetite and risk are not
just about financial and Regulatory
although those are commonly discussed
yeah yeah and they escalate you know you
might have someone on your team who's
dealing with the financial or the
regulatory risks uh hopefully you've
hired someone great but maybe it's a
consultant whatever this type of these
other types of risks are probably an
executive team founder CEO C cro
whatever level type you know risk
conversations to have so reputational
risk brand risk
um I know you you guys have some kind of
recent learnings around how you think
about some of those risks right yeah I
mean it gets back to the the kind of
Continuum or Spectrum Point around risk
management which is that you know when
you're an early stage company and I
remember when brex was a couple people
we're just launching you're just trying
to get your name out there right you
don't have a brand to protect you don't
even have a brand right and so at that
point your you don't have to be so
strategic and careful and that starts to
evolve as you get larger and so if
you're gonna try to do some like take
this conference right when brex was
really early we might have done more
things that are like stunts or you know
ways to get attention because we had to
get our name out there and then as you
start to get bigger and you're like a
you know big sponsor you're gonna do
less because you don't need to do that
you're known for a brand and you move
not into like super conservative mode
but more into something to protect and I
think one of the the biggest things that
people miss a lot of times when they're
talking about risk management and
talking about brand is that you know
your brand especially for fintechs is a
big reason is very tied into your
ability to manage risk and I go back to
the crypto example that I gave earlier
you know and you see this with
unraveling of and you know it's it's
it's um we've seen it as as especially
in crypto recently as things have
changed as people lose confidence in
your company it has a flywheel effect on
your ability to do business and you
start to lose customers you lose
confidence and then more customers drop
and so it can be this unraveling of a
brand and so you really need to be
thinking about even if you're a
marketing professional or not marketing
you want to be thinking like how can I
protect this brand as a part of my risk
management and that and that also
extends to PR yeah we think a lot about
bringing like in in very practical terms
sometimes it's our GC our marketing
Communications lead and our VP of people
in the same room to talk about something
but decision we're making a risk we're
taking because it might affect all all
of those things might affect our team I
might reflect recruiting abilities it
might reflect legal right there's all
sorts of things and so having that kind
of Trifecta of people plus the executive
team is really important for what we're
deciding there's some risks I think are
are good right a recent one for us
we made the decision to
extend Reproductive Rights benefits to
our employees so if you're in an
abortion restricted State you can access
health care in other states and we'll
cover the costs it doesn't come without
consequences for us we have employees
who may not like it we have customers
who may not like it but it was important
for us and it it it has those costs that
kind of like cost benefit analysis we
had to do with those three parties plus
the executive team lined up and so I
think you have to sort of think of
what's what it's not always just a cost
it's always just a benefit there's both
the other thing I would kind of say here
is there's companies that build on their
ability to manage certain types of risk
so Apple has built in a ton around data
privacy for example like that's the
thing we as consumers we all know is
part of their brand right um yeah it's a
good sort of turn it around and try to
actually make it a a strength of yours
right and so I think if you if you hear
Laura say like if the way that you're
going to respond to a crisis is get you
know your people team your marketing and
your compliance all together legal I
think that's also the way you want to be
proactive about your brand right and so
one of the things that we used to do and
still do have brexit is you think about
like what are the two to three things
you hope that people don't say about
your company NeXT quarter yeah and I
think that kind of planning and that
kind of strategy is it's a good way to
be proactively defensive in the sense
that you you kind of think about well
what could somebody say or what story
could they write or what could be the
problem heading into the next three
months and how am I going to proactively
prevent that and that is a really good
way of managing your brand and
reputation risk and that that's
something that scales over time
obviously what you're doing really early
that's going to change versus as your
company gets larger I like the idea of
like writing the headline you don't want
um I think especially in this moment
where Tech is like a little more under
the spotlight than it's probably ever
been there's layoffs right like how many
Tech crunch articles are there about
this the CEO who totally up a
layoff right that's like all we see
right now and so you have to think about
these things that are well perfectly
legal and potentially totally unintended
bad consequences like that that is real
yeah well look I think with that we
probably should go through takeaways
from today
grows as you grow sometimes it just
changes the nature of type of risk as
you grow have uh have a team that is
will the biggest thing is like know your
risk KYR uh know your risk know what
you're taking on know what you're
willing to take on not willing to take
on your limits will should probably
shift I mean I think your document
exercise makes sense you probably should
do whatever right six months yeah I
think yeah six months I think you want
to make sure that that's agreed upon by
everybody make sure that it's written in
a place that is accessible doesn't have
to be beautiful
um and make sure that when you hire
future people they understand that
that's the risk environment that they're
coming into because that is going to
help
um really set your company up and them
up and that's their career they're
potentially not they should opt out if
that's not right for them and totally
get on board so if this conversation has
been interesting for you feel free to
continue it at the brex booth or where
you'll find me and Laura and you can
also visit ally.com
thanks Mike all right thank you
[Applause]
[Music]